Let's take a look at the model that I built to do aphid classification.
So first, we're going to load our data set.
Because we're only really using the QRS complexes,
we don't need to load the right EKG data.
Then we can compute our features on our EKG records to build the feature matrix.
Then I used a random forest classifier that we've seen
before with a 100 trees and a maximum depth of four.
To evaluate, I chose seven-fold cross-validation just because we have 7,000 data points.
We can keep track of our performance by aggregating our results in confusion matrix,
or we can just keep track of all the classifications we make and the true labels.
We'll evaluate the performance of the classifier by computing the precision and
recall on detecting the non sinus or other rhythm class.
One way to do this is by looking at our classifications directly.
We can compute the number of true positives by counting up the number of
times we classify a record as other and it actually is other.
Our false positives are when we call it other and it's actually a normal sinus rhythm.
Then our false negatives are when we call it normal,
but it's actually other.
Then once we have the true false positives and the false negatives,
we can compute our precision and recall.
We see that our precision is 73 percent and the recall is 81 percent.
We can also do this using the confusion matrix.
We can get the true positives, false positives,
and false negatives directly from this matrix.
If you remember that the rows of the confusion matrix are
the actual labels and the columns are our predictions.
So we've built a fairly simple aphid classifier using
some basic features of the R interval time series.
You can do much better than this over by using more advanced techniques.
For one thing, the method that we use to
resample our RR interval time series was fairly naive,
and there are better ways to do this.
You can also build more complex features that are more informative about the arrhythmia.